---
artist: "clyfford still"
description: "1949-a-no-1-1949"
coverImage: "/assets/abstract-expressionism/clyfford-still_1949-a-no-1-1949.jpg"
genre: "Abstract Expressionism"
---
This is an art by clyfford still on Abstract Expressionism. This is an art by clyfford still on Abstract Expressionism. Clyfford Still was an American painter. He was one of the most original and influential first-generation Abstract Expressionists, being often credited for having shifted from representational painting to abstraction earlier than his colleagues.

Still was born in 1904 in Grandin, North Dakota and spent his childhood in Spokane, Washington and Bow Island in southern Alberta, Canada. Although Abstract Expressionism is identified as a New York movement, Still's formative works were created during various teaching posts on the West Coast. His work of this period is marked by an expressive figurative style used in depictions of the people, buildings, tools and machinery characteristic of farm life. By the late 1930s, he began to simplify his forms as he moved from representational painting toward abstraction.. This is an art by clyfford still on Abstract Expressionism. This is an art by clyfford still on Abstract Expressionism. Clyfford Still was an American painter. He was one of the most original and influential first-generation Abstract Expressionists, being often credited for having shifted from representational painting to abstraction earlier than his colleagues.

Still was born in 1904 in Grandin, North Dakota and spent his childhood in Spokane, Washington and Bow Island in southern Alberta, Canada. Although Abstract Expressionism is identified as a New York movement, Still's formative works were created during various teaching posts on the West Coast. His work of this period is marked by an expressive figurative style used in depictions of the people, buildings, tools and machinery characteristic of farm life. By the late 1930s, he began to simplify his forms as he moved from representational painting toward abstraction.. Clyfford Still was an American painter. He was one of the most original and influential first-generation Abstract Expressionists, being often credited for having shifted from representational painting to abstraction earlier than his colleagues.

Still was born in 1904 in Grandin, North Dakota and spent his childhood in Spokane, Washington and Bow Island in southern Alberta, Canada. Although Abstract Expressionism is identified as a New York movement, Still's formative works were created during various teaching posts on the West Coast. His work of this period is marked by an expressive figurative style used in depictions of the people, buildings, tools and machinery characteristic of farm life. By the late 1930s, he began to simplify his forms as he moved from representational painting toward abstraction.

